African wild dogs are formidable pack
hunters
[Music]
capable of killing adult weapons as well
as Cubs the cats need to move fast
[Music]
right now he is not his mother's
favorite yet for both Cubs this has been
a useful lesson to stay alive you must
stay alert
[Music]
just a few hundred meters downstream is
one of the salt springs lion pride the
female with the collar and it was only a
day or so ago that the entire pride was
just upstream of here on a buffalo kill
so these dogs really are caught between
a rock and a hard place because lions
are their archenemy
for now though they're oblivious to the
danger you can often judge an animal's
success by how much the youngsters play
these guys play a lot all the time
increasing their agility and building
their speed what they haven't noticed is
that one of the lionesses from the salt
Springs pride has arrived on the scene
and hidden in a thicket
she's keeping a close eye on the pack
but the dogs huge ears allow acute
hearing and the adult dog's attention is
grabbed by an impalas alarm call an
antelope has spotted the lion
straight away one of the adults is on
the case
the lioness presents a very real threat
she will kill a dog if she can catch one
one by one the adults and the sub adults
tried to distract her and draw her away
from the pack it gives the dog with the
broken foot time to chaperon the puppies
to safety
the lioness loses interest and leaves
the spring it really is quite
fascinating to watch the Alfa pair
always together always together
the man is constantly tailing behind her
wherever she goes
Aladin and feather have only been
together for four months but they're
already off to a flying start feather is
visibly pregnant but even though he's
now done the job she is pregnant with
his pups he doesn't leave her side for
one minute
[Music]
it's unusual for an alpha male to be so
attentive at this stage Aladin seems to
be a particularly devoted partner
[Music]
Taron has been monitoring feather and
aladdin's progress from the stars so
tell me a little bit about how Aladdin
and feather behaved with each other as
the Alpha pair we've often seen him with
his chin resting on her ear and just
following her around and he's been
observed sleeping with his paw on her
knot it's typical to what we call mate
guarding behavior he's looking after her
he's making sure that she's that she's
fed and healthy when she's pregnant
he continues to follow her even though
he's already done his job and fathered
her litter and I think that's his way of
ensuring that his litter of paps
survives and is healthy Aladdin and
feather look like a solid couple and
that's good news for everyone else in
the group because as the Alpha pair it's
their job to provide the pack with new
pups so is that it are they completely
established and their roles are
determined and everything's hunky-dory
with the whole pile so far so good
the the key will be how successful they
are at raising that litter of pups as a
pack the success of a pack always
depends on on the on the reproductive
system success so how well they work
together to successfully rear their
young so they're not home free not at
all so whatever you get a new alpha pair
it doesn't mean anything until they've
successfully reared their first latest
letter oh gosh no pressure
fortunately for Aladdin and feather the
rest of the group will be there to lend
a helping hand the other adult females
are feather sisters and the male's come
from different packs
like um the rest behind us it's one big
happy family where everyone pitches in
feathers older sister bossy is the lead
hunter
by sharing the workload the pack runs
like a well-oiled machine of all the
whistle Jason comment he's going and if
oh well most of the time so you've got
wildebeest chasing and the wild dogs
what's wrong with that picture
when Aladdin and feathers pups are born
everyone will help to feed and protect
them
[Music]
you